本文属于资料存档，内容为2026年G20峰会的主席声明。有几点需要说明：
1.本文英文版来自美国财政部（U.S. Department of the Treasury）官网，中文为workbuddy翻译；
2.本文并非参会成员一致同意的G20峰会联合公报，而是美国自行公布的主席声明，相关内容未必经过所有成员一致同意。根据文中注解，中国对声明中的4.、10、11、13条款表示反对，对其他条款没有意见，其他成员同意了声明全部条款。根据要求，联合公报需要所有成员一致同意才能发布，历史上也曾出现过未发布联合公报、而是东道主发布主席声明的情况。
3.G20峰会成员包括19个主权国家：中国、阿根廷、澳大利亚、巴西、加拿大、法国、德国、印度、印度尼西亚、意大利、日本、韩国、墨西哥、俄罗斯、沙特阿拉伯、南非、土耳其、英国、美国，以及欧盟和非盟两个国际组织。

G20 主席声明
G20 Chair's Statement
2026 年 9 月 1 日 · September 1, 2026G20 财政部长与中央银行行长第二次会议 · Second Meeting of G20 Finance Ministers and Central Bank Governors美国 阿什维尔 · Asheville, USA
导言|Introduction
1.We, the G20 Finance Ministers and Central Bank Governors who assembled in Asheville, North Carolina, on August 31 and September 1, 2026, met to advance the G20 Finance track priorities for 2026. We welcomed engagement from invited guest countries and international organizations. We were also joined by private sector representatives to discuss how G20 countries can promote private sector-led growth and innovation.
1.我们——于 2026 年 8 月 31 日至 9 月 1 日齐聚北卡罗来纳州阿什维尔的 G20 财政部长与中央银行行长——举行会议，推进 2026 年 G20 财金轨道各项优先事项。我们欢迎受邀嘉宾国及国际组织参会。私营部门代表也应邀出席，就 G20 国家如何促进由私营部门主导的增长与创新进行了讨论。
2.We appreciate the hospitality of the citizens of Asheville and Western North Carolina and commend both the progress made in revitalizing the region and the resilience of its people in the aftermath of the devastating Hurricane Helene.
2.我们感谢阿什维尔及北卡罗来纳州西部民众的盛情款待，对该地区在毁灭性的&#34;海伦妮&#34;飓风过后的振兴进展与民众韧性表示赞赏。
3.We welcome the United States G20 Presidency's focus on promoting strong economic growth and recognize the achievements across its key priorities, including private sector engagement, productivity growth, global imbalances, financial literacy, sovereign debt, digital assets, and financial sector issues. We also welcome the successful streamlining of the G20 Finance track's structure and agenda under the U.S. Presidency, enhancing its efficiency, strengthening its focus on core economic and financial priorities, and we will continue to ensure that the G20 Finance track is fit-for-purpose and responsive.
3.我们欢迎美国担任 G20 主席国聚焦于推动强劲经济增长，并认可其在各项核心优先事项上取得的成效，包括私营部门参与、生产率增长、全球失衡、金融素养、主权债务、数字资产以及金融部门议题。我们也欢迎在美国主席国任期内成功精简 G20 财金轨道的结构与议程，提升其效率，强化其对核心经济与金融优先事项的聚焦。我们将继续确保 G20 财金轨道与时俱进、响应及时。
一、促进全球经济增长|Promoting Global Economic Growth
4.The global economy has remained resilient in the face of multiple shocks, including ongoing wars and conflicts. Ensuring the efficient and smooth functioning of key value chains, such as energy, food, fertilizer, and critical minerals, is essential to supporting global growth. We are concerned about continued disruptions to energy trade and stress that the free, safe, and predictable navigation through the Strait of Hormuz and worldwide, and the resolution of ongoing wars and conflicts are essential to sustaining durable growth.
4.全球经济在多重冲击（包括持续的战争与冲突）面前仍保持韧性。确保能源、化肥、关键矿产等关键价值链高效顺畅运行，对支撑全球增长至关重要。我们对能源贸易持续受到干扰表示关切，强调在霍尔木兹海峡及全球范围内实现自由、安全、可预期的航行，并解决持续中的战争与冲突，对维持持久增长不可或缺。
5.Given a number of downside risks, we recognize that a stable and predictable macroeconomic environment plays an important role in supporting growth and jobs, particularly for developing countries. We urge countries to avoid unnecessary export restrictions to ensure global supply chains continue to function normally. We welcome the Multilateral Development Bank (MDB) joint statement affirming their commitment to develop an MDB Roadmap on Strengthening Fertilizer Supply Chains that enables MDB support across all segments of the fertilizer supply chain, including increased financing for fertilizer production, upstream production, processing, storage, transportation, and other critical infrastructure. Where needed and where fiscal space is available, temporary and targeted measures can help respond to shocks and limit the economic effects on the poorest and most vulnerable, while preserving debt sustainability. Our fiscal policies will safeguard fiscal sustainability and rebuild buffers, promote growth, and catalyze productivity-enhancing investment. We note that private investment is an important driver of growth. We welcome the potential for investment in artificial intelligence, computing, and digital infrastructure to increase productivity and enable broad adoption, while recognizing the importance of addressing risks, including potential financial sector and other sector-specific risks, and leveraging AI-enabled innovation to strengthen cyber resilience. We reaffirm our April 2021 exchange rate commitment.
5.鉴于多重下行风险，我们认识到稳定且可预期的宏观经济环境在支持增长和就业方面发挥着重要作用，对发展中国家而言尤为如此。我们敦促各国避免实施不必要的出口限制，以确保全球供应链继续正常运作。我们欢迎多边开发银行（MDB）联合声明所确认的承诺——制定一份&#34;加强化肥供应链 MDB 路线图&#34;，使 MDB 能够在化肥供应链各个环节提供支持，包括加大对化肥生产、上游生产、加工、储存、运输及其他关键基础设施的融资力度。在确有需要且财政空间允许的情况下，临时性、针对性的措施有助于应对冲击、减轻对最贫困和最脆弱群体的经济影响，同时维护债务可持续性。我们的财政政策将维护财政可持续性、重建缓冲、增进增长，并催化促进生产率的投资。我们注意到私人投资是增长的重要驱动力。我们欢迎对人工智能、计算和数字基础设施的投资潜力，以提高生产率、推动广泛应用，同时认识到应对相关风险的重要性，包括潜在的金融部门和其他行业特定风险，并利用 AI 赋能创新增强网络韧性。我们重申 2021 年 4 月的汇率承诺。
6.Central banks are strongly committed to maintaining price stability and the continued resilience of the financial system, which supports robust economic growth, consistent with their respective mandates. Central bank independence is crucial to the conduct of monetary policy. As artificial intelligence and other structural changes reshape our economies, central banks will aim to rigorously distinguish gains in productive capacity from changes in demand.
6.各国央行坚定致力于维护价格稳定和金融体系的持续韧性——这是符合各自职责的稳健经济增长的支柱。央行独立性对于货币政策的实施至关重要。随着人工智能及其他结构性变化重塑我们的经济，央行将力求严格区分生产能力的提升与需求的变化。
7.Advancing growth is a key priority across our economies; pro-growth economic policies expand the frontiers of global prosperity for all. We have identified significant common impediments to robust economic growth, including regulatory and administrative burdens; inefficient tax regimes; inadequate investment; high costs of capital; and lagging labor supply, skills, and mobility. We are working to address these impediments through a range of policies and approaches including simplifying and reducing red tape and regulations that are overly burdensome; boosting labor force participation; reducing labor market frictions; enhancing human capital; encouraging quality investment; welcoming innovation; and promoting tax regimes that support broad-based growth and prosperity. We recognize that artificial intelligence is a general-purpose technology with the potential to have profound effects on the global economy. Economies that embrace its responsible development, adoption, and diffusion will likely set the pace of global growth in the years ahead. Abundant and affordable energy access, quality infrastructure investment, predictable investment environments underpinned by macroeconomic stability and the rule of law, and the responsible embrace of AI and other emerging technologies will help facilitate growth. Strengthening domestic resource mobilization and addressing illicit finance can help remove important structural constraints to investment, reinforce macroeconomic resilience, and support stronger, more durable growth.
7.推进增长是我们各经济体的核心优先事项；促增长的经济政策将拓展全球繁荣的边界，惠及各方。我们已识别出多项阻碍强劲经济增长的共同因素，包括监管与行政负担、低效的税收制度、投资不足、高昂的资本成本，以及劳动力供给、技能与流动性不足。我们正通过一系列政策与途径加以应对，包括简化和削减过度繁重的繁文缛节与监管；提高劳动参与率；降低劳动力市场摩擦；提升人力资本；鼓励优质投资；欢迎创新；以及推行支持广泛增长与繁荣的税收制度。我们认识到人工智能是一项具有对全球经济产生深远影响潜力的通用技术。拥抱其负责任开发、应用与扩散的经济体，有望在未来的岁月中引领全球增长步伐。充足且可负担的能源供应、高质量的基础设施投资、以宏观稳定和法治为支撑的可预期投资环境，以及对 AI 和其他新兴技术的负责任拥抱，将有助于推动增长。加强国内资源动员和应对非法融资，有助于消除投资的重要结构性制约、增强宏观经济韧性，并支持更强劲、更持久的增长。
8.International organizations have an important role to play in helping to facilitate stronger growth outcomes. In that regard, we call on the IMF, World Bank Group, and OECD to support our efforts through further analysis and policy advice, in line with their respective mandates, on actions to overcome structural impediments, increase productivity, bolster macroeconomic frameworks, and support robust, durable, and balanced growth. We support the OECD's work on how countries' tax policies and systems impact business dynamism and look forward to an interim report from the OECD by the end of the year. We call on the World Bank Group and other multilateral development banks, in line with their respective mandates, to engage with members on policy reforms that address core macroeconomic and development challenges and targeted investments with demonstrable returns to productivity, growth, and jobs.
8.国际组织在帮助实现更强劲增长成果方面能够发挥重要作用。为此，我们呼吁国际货币基金组织（IMF）、世界银行集团和经合组织（OECD）根据各自职责，通过进一步分析与政策建议，支持我们克服结构性障碍、提高生产率、巩固宏观经济框架，并支持强劲、持久、平衡的增长。我们支持 OECD 就各国税收政策与制度如何影响企业活力开展的工作，并期待其在年底前提交中期报告。我们呼吁世界银行集团及其他多边开发银行，根据各自职责，与成员国就应对核心宏观经济与发展挑战的政策改革，以及对生产率、增长和就业具有可验证回报的针对性投资进行协作。
9.We affirm the private sector's critical role in driving broad-based economic growth, job creation, and innovation. We have engaged directly with the private sector in our G20 Finance track meetings this year, and we will continue our respective engagements with private sector participants in our jurisdictions through mechanisms including broad public consultations, targeted stakeholder engagement, and institutionalized partnership models. Our discussions have underscored that durable growth is strengthened by a supportive business environment that provides policy clarity and promotes innovation, investment, skills development, and effective public-private collaboration. We call on international standards setting bodies to support private sector-led innovation and to commit to the principle that standards should be well-calibrated and fit-for-purpose. We commit to continue working closely with the private sector to improve policy design, remove impediments, and accelerate growth. In particular, we commit to policy actions to encourage the development of small and medium-sized businesses, which are vital drivers of growth and employment. We, as the G20 Finance track, will continue robust engagement with the private sector.
9.我们重申私营部门在驱动广泛的经济增长、创造就业与创新方面所发挥的关键作用。我们今年已在 G20 财金轨道会议中与私营部门直接交流，并将继续通过广泛公众咨询、定向利益相关方对接以及制度化伙伴关系等机制，在各自辖区内与私营部门开展互动。我们的讨论表明，持久增长得益于一个具有支撑力的商业环境——其能够提供清晰的政策、鼓励创新与投资、推动技能发展，并促成有效的公私合作。我们呼吁国际标准制定机构支持由私营部门主导的创新，并恪守&#34;标准应当校准得当、与时俱进&#34;的原则。我们承诺将继续与私营部门紧密协作，改善政策设计、清除障碍、加快增长。我们尤其承诺采取政策行动，鼓励中小企业的发展——它们是增长和就业的重要驱动力。作为 G20 财金轨道，我们将继续与私营部门开展强有力的互动。
二、应对全球失衡|Addressing Global Imbalances
10.We recognize that excessive and persistent imbalances pose risks and can generate economic distortions and adverse cross-border spillovers that hinder growth, drive and exacerbate imbalances in other countries, heighten economic and supply chain vulnerabilities, and reduce resiliency. These detrimental effects can contribute to economic tensions and potential risks of disorderly adjustment, including through the financial channel. We agree that countries should take steps to eliminate non-market policies and practices that exacerbate imbalances. In particular, countries with excessive and persistent external surpluses should remove distortions that constrain domestic consumption and that result in an overreliance on exports for growth. These policies and practices result in harmful spillovers to global, regional, and domestic markets and increase economic dependency. Countries with excessive and persistent external deficits should also undertake policies that include supporting domestic savings and fiscal consolidation. We acknowledge that a lack of policy adjustment can impair global growth and resiliency. On this front, continued G20 cooperation would be welcome, as addressing these imbalances is of common interest for both surplus and deficit economies. We welcome the productive discussions of the G20 study group on global imbalances, which concluded its 2026 workplan in June, and we thank Australia and the Republic of Korea for co-chairing this group.
10.我们认识到，过度且持续的失衡会带来风险，并可能导致经济扭曲以及抑制增长的跨境负面外溢——或推动与加剧其他国家的失衡，加剧经济和供应链脆弱性，降低经济韧性。这些不利影响可能引致经济紧张局势和无序调整的潜在风险，包括通过金融渠道传导。我们认同，各国应采取措施，根除加剧失衡的非市场性政策与做法。具体而言，存在过度且持续外部顺差的国家应当消除抑制国内消费、并导致增长过度依赖出口的政策扭曲。这些政策与做法对全球、地区和国内市场造成有害外溢，并加深经济依赖。存在过度且持续外部逆差的国家亦应采取相应政策，包括支持国内储蓄与推进财政整顿。我们认识到，政策调整缺位可能损害全球增长与韧性。在这一方面，我们欢迎 G20 继续开展合作——应对失衡既符合顺差经济体的共同利益，也符合逆差经济体的共同利益。我们欢迎 G20 全球失衡研究小组开展的建设性讨论，该小组已于 2026 年 6 月完成其年度工作计划，感谢澳大利亚与大韩民国共同担任该小组的联合主席。
11.We emphasize that surveillance of global imbalances is anchored in the IMF's mandate. We welcome the ongoing work of the IMF to further strengthen the consistency and evenhandedness of its surveillance of the macroeconomic drivers of imbalances, as well as of distortive policies and outward and inward spillovers. We strongly support the IMF's work this year to enhance its analytical tools and improve surveillance of policies that underpin and drive global imbalances and the associated risks. We also ask the IMF to present more granular scenario analysis, including the costs of inaction, and to further integrate this analysis into its bilateral and multilateral surveillance and policy advice. The OECD could also play a role in analyzing the structural drivers of global imbalances. We ask the IMF and OECD to continue to improve data necessary for robust analysis of imbalances including their coverage of non-market policies and practices, and to consider improving their data sources as appropriate, in line with their respective mandates and expertise.
11.我们强调，对全球失衡的监督以 IMF 的职责为依托。我们欢迎 IMF 持续推进工作，以进一步强化其在失衡的宏观经济驱动因素、扭曲性政策以及对外对内溢出方面监督的一致性与公正性。我们强烈支持 IMF 今年为完善其分析工具、加强对于构成和驱动全球失衡及其相关风险的政策监督所做的工作。我们还请 IMF 提供更细致的情景分析——包括&#34;无所作为&#34;的代价——并将此类分析进一步纳入其双边和多边监督以及政策建议之中。OECD 也可在分析全球失衡的结构性驱动因素方面发挥作用。我们请 IMF 与 OECD 继续完善对失衡进行强有力分析所必需的数据，包括对非市场性政策与做法覆盖范围的改进，并依据各自职责与专长酌情改进数据来源。
三、推进全球金融素养与教育|Advancing Global Financial Literacy and Education
12.We acknowledge that financial literacy is foundational to financial health and well-being. We welcome the efforts of the United States G20 Presidency to bring high-level attention to the importance of financial literacy, including through this spring's G20 Fireside Chat on Global Financial Literacy and the Financial Literacy Solutions Sprint with the support of the World Bank Group, for which winners will be highlighted at the 2026 Annual Meetings of the IMF and World Bank Group in Bangkok in October. We endeavor to scale up national financial education efforts within our jurisdictions and promote the use of evidence-based best practices globally to improve financial decision making at all stages of life. We strive to target consumer education interventions that support informed decisions about saving, investing, and building wealth over individuals' lifetimes, such as through the use of Trump Accounts in the United States, incentive programs in a number of other G20 countries to catalyze savings and investments, as well as other national initiatives. Encouraging savings and responsible investment boosts growth and promotes personal responsibility and financial independence. We acknowledge that financial education can help consumers protect their personal finances and strengthen financial resilience by providing knowledge and tools to identify and avoid fraud attempts. We welcome efforts by the private sector and other stakeholders to help identify innovative approaches to unlock financial opportunity globally and promote economic growth, and to encourage objectivity, quality, and broad access in financial literacy programs. We encourage G20 members to continue advancing global financial literacy and financial health, including through international collaboration.
12.我们认识到，金融素养是财务健康与福祉的基石。我们欢迎美国 G20 主席国通过今年春季举办的&#34;G20 全球金融素养炉边谈话&#34;，以及与世界银行集团合作开展的&#34;金融素养解决方案冲刺&#34;（其获奖项目将于 10 月在曼谷举行的 2026 年 IMF 与世界银行集团年会期间揭晓）等活动，将金融素养的重要性提升到高级别关注。我们致力于在各自辖区内扩大国家金融教育的力度，并在全球范围内推广基于实证的最佳实践，以改善个人生命各阶段的财务决策。我们力争将消费者教育干预的目标，定位在帮助其在储蓄、投资和财富积累方面做出知情决定——例如美国推出的&#34;特朗普账户&#34;、其他多个 G20 国家用以催化储蓄与投资的激励项目，以及其他各类国家举措。鼓励储蓄与负责任的投资，有助于推动增长，并促进个人责任与财务独立。我们认识到，金融教育能够帮助消费者保护个人财务、加强财务韧性，使其具备识别和规避欺诈的知识与工具。我们欢迎私营部门及其他利益相关方协助识别创新的方法路径，释放全球金融机会、推动经济增长，并鼓励金融素养项目在客观性、质量与广泛可及性方面的不断提升。我们鼓励 G20 成员国继续推进全球金融素养与财务健康事业，包括通过国际合作开展相关工作。
四、改善全球主权债务架构|Improving the Global Sovereign Debt Architecture
13.We remain committed to addressing ongoing challenges to debt sustainability and acknowledge the need for faster and more predictable debt treatments to improve debt sustainability and growth outcomes. We reaffirm the G20's ongoing commitment to further strengthen the implementation of the G20 Common Framework in a predictable, timely, orderly, and coordinated manner, and we affirm our solidarity, which preserves flexibility where necessary while calling for joint action and fair burden sharing. We are deepening our efforts to apply lessons learned from the Common Framework to countries where a meaningful share of external debt is owed to G20 members. In such cases, broader coordination among G20 official creditors can help streamline debt restructurings. We also welcome progress in the implementation of the IMF-World Bank Group 3-Pillar approach, which aims to support countries with sustainable debt burdens and strong reform agendas but facing high debt service payments that crowd out growth-enhancing investments. We encourage further strengthening of the implementation of the 3-Pillar approach, including through appropriate contributions by relevant stakeholders including official bilateral creditors.
13.我们继续致力于应对当前债务可持续性方面的挑战，并承认需要更快、更可预期的债务处置，以改善债务可持续性和增长成果。我们重申 G20 持续推进的承诺——以可预期、及时、有序、协调的方式进一步强化&#34;G20 共同框架&#34;的执行；我们重申团结一致，在保留必要灵活性的同时，呼吁共同行动与公平分担负担。我们正深化努力，将&#34;共同框架&#34;实施过程中汲取的经验教训，应用于那些相当部分外债由 G20 成员国持有的国家。在此类情况下，G20 官方债权人之间更广泛的协调有助于精简债务重组。我们也欢迎实施&#34;IMF—世界银行集团三支柱方案&#34;所取得的进展——该方案旨在支持那些债务负担可持续、改革议程有力、但面临高额偿债支出挤占促进增长投资的国家。我们鼓励进一步强化&#34;三支柱方案&#34;的实施，包括相关利益相关方（含官方双边债权人）作出适当贡献。
14.We acknowledge the important role that debt data transparency plays in strengthening the international debt architecture. To that end, we welcome the publication of the G20's illustrative, non-binding template memorandum of understanding, which details the key terms of a sovereign debt treatment, for use in future negotiations under the Common Framework. We also appreciate the efforts of the Global Sovereign Debt Roundtable (GSDR) in updating the playbook for borrowing countries. Finally, we support the work of the World Bank's Debtor Reporting System in improving debt transparency. We encourage increasing G20 participation in the World Bank's Debt Data Sharing Exercise to aid debt data reconciliation and improve accuracy, consistent with legal and confidentiality safeguards.
14.我们认识到债务数据透明度在国际债务架构强化中所发挥的重要作用。为此，我们欢迎 G20 发布具有说明性、非约束性的&#34;谅解备忘录模板&#34;，详细列示主权债务处置的关键条款，供&#34;共同框架&#34;下未来谈判使用。我们也赞赏&#34;全球主权债务圆桌会议&#34;（GSDR）在更新借款国操作手册方面所作的努力。最后，我们支持世界银行&#34;债务人报告系统&#34;在改善债务透明度方面的工作。我们鼓励扩大 G20 对世界银行&#34;债务数据共享行动&#34;的参与，以促进债务数据核对、提升准确性，并符合法律与保密要求。
五、推动金融部门创新与监管现代化|Promoting Financial Sector Innovation and Regulatory Modernization
15.We are committed to modernizing our regulatory and supervisory frameworks to ensure financial stability, and promote the resilience and efficiency of our financial systems in order to support strong and durable economic growth. We support the work of the Financial Stability Board (FSB) and affirm our commitment to addressing potential financial sector vulnerabilities. We look forward to the results of the FSB's stocktake, which will identify widespread regulatory and supervisory modernization efforts across all jurisdictions, and we look forward to the forthcoming FSB consultation report with principles to guide jurisdictional efforts to modernize financial sector policies and maintain financial stability. We also look forward to the FSB's Implementation Monitoring Review, which evaluates and identifies potential opportunities to improve how the FSB encourages and monitors the implementation of its recommendations. We look forward to finalization of the FSB's paper on Sound Practices for Responsible Adoption of AI. We also shared updates on our respective proposals and regulations, including implementing the final components of Basel III. We renew our support for the implementation of the FSB's Key Attributes of Effective Resolution Regimes and look forward to the FSB's forthcoming findings and recommendations from its Thematic Peer Review on Public Sector Backstop Funding Mechanisms.
15.我们致力于推动监管与监督框架的现代化，以确保金融稳定，提升金融体系的韧性与效率，从而支持强劲、持久的经济增长。我们支持金融稳定理事会（FSB）的工作，并重申我们应对金融部门潜在脆弱性的承诺。我们期待 FSB 盘点工作的成果——该盘点将识别各辖区广泛开展的监管与监督现代化举措；我们也期待 FSB 即将发布的、载有指导各辖区金融部门政策现代化与维护金融稳定原则的征求意见报告。我们还期待 FSB 的&#34;实施情况监测审查&#34;成果——该审查评估并识别改善 FSB 鼓励及监测其建议实施方式方面潜在机会。我们期待 FSB 的《人工智能负责任采用良好实践》文件定稿发布。我们还分享了各自提案与监管的最新进展，包括巴塞尔协议 III 最终内容的实施情况。我们再次支持 FSB《有效处置机制核心属性》的实施，并期待 FSB 即将公布的&#34;公共部门后备融资机制主题同行审查&#34;的结论与建议。
16.We recognize the transformative role that digital financial innovation, including digital assets, can play in supporting broad-based economic growth and the key role of the private sector in driving this innovation. We also recognize the importance of safeguarding financial stability and maintaining trust in the monetary and payment system in the face of this transformation. We commit to advancing responsible and effective regulatory and supervisory frameworks that preserve financial stability, support economic growth, and establish clear pathways for sound digital financial and digital assets innovation, while considering cross-border opportunities and challenges as appropriate. We look forward to the FSB's forthcoming summary of its findings from reports on cross-border implications related to global stablecoin arrangements and stablecoin data sources, availability, and potential challenges. We reaffirm our commitment to the G20 Roadmap for Enhancing Cross-border Payments, and we call on countries to advance initiatives to expand large-value payment system operating hours, encourage use of the harmonized ISO 20022 data model, and facilitate the cross-border transmission of financial services-related data while considering data security and domestic legal frameworks.
16.我们认识到数字金融创新（包括数字资产）在支持广泛经济增长中所发挥的变革性作用，并认识到私营部门在推动此类创新中的关键角色。我们也认识到在面对这一变革时，维护金融稳定、保持对货币与支付体系信任的重要性。我们承诺推进负责任、有效的监管与监督框架——以维护金融稳定、支持经济增长，并为健全的数字金融与数字资产创新建立清晰路径，同时酌情考虑跨境机遇与挑战。我们期待 FSB 即将发布的、关于全球稳定币安排及其数据来源、可得性与潜在挑战的跨境影响报告的成果摘要。我们重申对 G20《加强跨境支付路线图》的承诺，并呼吁各国推进相关举措——扩大大额支付系统的运行时间、鼓励使用统一的 ISO 20022 数据模型，以及在考虑数据安全与本国法律框架的前提下，便利金融服务相关数据的跨境传输。
17.We reaffirm our commitment to support the Financial Action Task Force (FATF) and FATF-Style Regional Bodies in overseeing the implementation of the FATF Standards to combat money laundering, terrorism financing, and proliferation financing, in line with the FATF Ministerial Declaration adopted in April 2026. We call on countries to implement risk-based supervision for anti-money laundering and countering the terrorism financing and proliferation financing of weapons of mass destruction and look forward to advancing implementation through the FATF's Learning and Development Forum to be hosted by the United States in Dallas later this year. We call upon the FATF to take action to ensure that jurisdictions with significant virtual assets use are effectively implementing the FATF standards on virtual assets as a priority. We are encouraged by the FATF's renewed focus on combatting illicit finance and money laundering originating from fraud, especially the evolving threat emanating from scam compounds and exploitation of AI by fraudsters. We welcome the FATF's efforts to strengthen public-private partnerships and enhance information-sharing to better detect and disrupt illicit finance at speed and scale.
17.我们重申对支持金融行动特别工作组（FATF）及 FATF 式区域机构监督 FATF 标准实施的承诺——以打击洗钱、恐怖融资与大规模杀伤性武器扩散融资，依据 2026 年 4 月通过的 FATF 部长宣言。我们呼吁各国针对反洗钱、反恐怖融资和反大规模杀伤性武器扩散融资实施基于风险的监管，并期待通过 FATF 将于今年晚些时候在美国达拉斯举办的学习与发展论坛推进实施工作。我们呼吁 FATF 采取行动，确保具有重要虚拟资产使用规模的辖区作为优先事项有效实施 FATF 虚拟资产相关标准。我们对 FATF 重新聚焦打击源自欺诈、特别是源自诈骗园区及欺诈分子利用 AI 所带来的新型威胁的非法融资与洗钱活动表示鼓舞。我们欢迎 FATF 在加强公私伙伴关系与信息共享方面所做的努力，以更快、更大规模地识别与瓦解非法融资活动。
脚注 | Footnotes
1.The statement was agreed by all G20 members present except China, which objected to paragraphs 4, 10, 11, and 13.
1.本声明经所有与会 G20 成员国同意，但中国对第 4、10、11、13 段持反对意见。
2.The Netherlands, Poland, Singapore, State of Qatar, Switzerland, and the United Arab Emirates.
2.受邀嘉宾国：荷兰、波兰、新加坡、卡塔尔国、瑞士与阿拉伯联合酋长国。
3.The Financial Action Task Force (FATF), Financial Stability Board (FSB), International Monetary Fund (IMF), Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), and World Bank (WB).
3.受邀国际组织：金融行动特别工作组（FATF）、金融稳定理事会（FSB）、国际货币基金组织（IMF）、经济合作与发展组织（OECD）、世界银行（WB）。
本文信息截止日期：2026-09-06
感谢阅读，欢迎关注公众号「浮生杂记807」
